and I've got a new way to explain Ai and
specifically llms to people and I think
this one is short enough in fact I'm
just going to give the highlights of it
so let me take you into this
one uh so here is the basic concept five
levels of llm understanding so the first
level at the bottom is it's just
predicting
text like the next text token in a in a
text sequence that's all it's doing it's
not
magical right and this is kind of the
most common argument for why llms and AI
is not all that special or specifically
AI based on llms people are just like
look it's just next token prediction no
big
deal if you pull away from that one
level it's like look it's just
predicting the next item in a sequence
okay so it's just next token prediction
okay one abstraction away from there and
this all comes from this thing from uh
elizer
yudkowsky
who had this this great kind of little
statement on X that made me think about
this
but essentially what it is is for this
level level three it's predicting the
next token in the description of an
answer okay so what yowy said
was any predicting the next token is
isomorphic with predicting the next
token of an
answer okay and that is really really
powerful and it wasn't the exact quote
but that's essentially it if you go one
level above that okay it's predicting
answers to insanely difficult questions
so so here are the four levels so far
it's predicting the next token in a
piece of text it's predicting the next
token third level it's predicting the
next token of an
answer second level it's predicting
answers and the top
level it seems to know
everything okay and this all comes from
this here it is right here it just
predicts the next token literally any
well-posed problem is isomorphic predict
the next token of the answer and
literally anyone with a grasp of
undergraduate comai is supposed to see
that without being told I don't agree
with that last part this part here I
don't agree with that I I don't think
that's accurate in fact I think the vast
majority of
people that's very much not the case
very much not the case I I would say
95% so I I would say I disagree on
multiple levels for that second piece
the part that I
like is this here which I highlighted
and separated on purpose literally any
well-posed
problem is isomorphic to predict the
next token of the
answer that is extraordinary that is
brilliant that is the answer to the it's
just next token prediction argument that
is the immediate counter of that wellos
problem equals prediction of next token
of
answer so that's that one